The "Implement soft updates instead" challenge exercise should perhaps
be "Implement journalling" since we've switched away from reading Soft
Updates.  Implementing journalling is also a reasonable thing to do in
JOS, whereas Soft Updates would be extremely difficult.  If we want to
keep Soft Updates in there, we could add, "If you're feeling
especially adventurous, try implementing Soft Updates from <link>".

The challenge exercises are all rather difficult, unlike other labs,
which have a gradient.

Add a test that reads a block, updates it, then reads it again without
flushing it to make sure read_block recognized that the page was
already mapped and didn't re-read it from disk.

Add a test that reads/writes files large enough to have indirect
blocks.

Add a test that writes to a file, flushes it to disk, then reads it
back.  (Suggested by rishig)

Add a test that fills up most of the disk to stress bitmap code.
(Suggested by rishig)

There's no way to create new files within JOS, even though there's a
file_create function in fs/fs.c.  I think all this takes is a few more
lines in fs/serv.c:serve_open.  There's even a flag already.

Tell them to clear the dirty bit in read_block after ide_read'ing.
Otherwise, every page read from disk starts out marked dirty.



I don't like this lab.  In order to make it short, it's been stripped
of all interesting content related to the actual file system.  Most of
what students have to implement are bizarre memory mapping tricks, the
design of which are completely irrelevant to any real life file
system.  The design is so inflexbile that no real file system even
*could* work this way.  By the end, my head was spinning from the tour
de force of layers, none of which I really understood since I had
spent so little time dealing with any one of them.  Up until this
point, I feel like students could easily understand the entirety of
JOS and feel like they've really built the whole system despite the
provided code.  I feel like this lab diverges from this.

Silas suggested that the file system could be reimplemented as a
library, without the need for a file system server, by adding a few
shared-memory synchronization primitives (even a yielding xchg
spinlock is probably enough).  This may or may not make things
simpler, but it would at least reduce the number of layers and
components that students need to understand.
