QEMU's GDB stub always uses linear addresses, which makes the
exercises that involve stepping through code and setting breakpoints
after segments have been set up but before paging has been set up very
awkward.  Not only do you have to manually translate from virtual
addresses to linear addresses, but GDB can't step or continue after it
hits a breakpoint.

We ultimately fixed this by patching QEMU to translate all addresses
relative to the data segment.  There may be no disadvantage to this,
since we have to patch QEMU for the network lab and this gave us the
opportunity to add a few other useful features to QEMU.  However, it
might make more sense to do what most operating systems do and set up
the initial kernel mapping using hand-written static page tables
instead of segments.  In order to keep paging in lab 2, we could
probably simply provide this code to the students.  They'll still have
to build the real boot page table in lab 2, though we can avoid the
segment-to-paging dance.



Enough people try to build on non-x86 machines or try to run QEMU
without X forwarding enabled that I wrapped QEMU on Athena in a script
(/mit/6.828/arch/share/bin/qemu) that checks for these conditions.  If
people start encountering these problems again, something is probably
wrong with the script.



Provide information on using QEMU and gdb and information about the
setup of the labs.  Later in the term, a number of students complained
that they didn't understand gdb well enough to use it and many seem
unaware of the tools in QEMU.  Explain all of the qemu targets in the
makefile (and how to exit from the qemu-nox targets).  Explain how to
enter the QEMU monitor (which differs slightly between the various
targets), and describe some of the QEMU commands that are particularly
useful for 6.828 (info mem, info pg).  Point to some generic gdb
tutorial for the basic commands, but explain how to switch between
symbol-files.  Provide a link back to this information in lab 3, once
they have user processes, since they'll only have one symbol file at
this point and thus probably won't remember.  Mention the other things
the makefile generates, like the .asm files.  This should probably
also be mentioned again in lab 3, since they'll only have one asm file
up to that point.



Upgrade the GCC in the 6.828 locker on Athena.  The version in there
is really old and misses a lot of errors that more recent versions
catch.
